
Going to the telescope is one of the most special parts of being an observational astronomer. When the my first research group was first given the opportunity to travel to Lick Observatory, I was the only person who voluneered to go. Even though most of the research projects in our group revolved around the data collected at the telescope, most people declined the offer to drive two hours up a windy road, and stay up all night pointing the telescope into the heavens. I jumped at the chance.

The first person who drove me up the windy road to Lick Observatory asked, "Do you get car sick?" It was more of a warning than a question. As we tore up the road and around the curves the observatory, once a white dot on the mountain became larger with every new turn that has a view to the observatory. Once there (if no 'stops' were required), we settled in and headed to dinner. Dinner at most observatories is provided to help astronomers persevere through the long nights. If other telescopes are being used, there would be company at the dinner table as everyone discussed the weather and conditions for the night. Would the inversion layer hold? Has the smoke from the sometimes nearby forest fires been swept away by the on shore breeze? Soon afterward, after the compliments to the cook, our night lunches in hand, we would head off to the telescope to begin calibrations, or perhaps steal a nap before sunset.

I began training on the telescope on the CAT, or the Coude Auxilliary Telescope aside the 3-meter Shane Telescope dome. At the time, operation of the telescope was quite manual and a variety of ancient looking buttons were pushed in sequence to open the dome, and the mirror covers. Part of the setup for the night was manually opening the mirror covers and the protective cover on the echelle grating(whatever you do don't touch it!). One of the more exciting parts was filling the dewar with liquid nitrogen from hand held jug and metal funnel. It was certaintly a moment in time, as nearly all of the tasks just described can now be quickly from GUIs in the control room computer. The CAT was a special telescope because the positioning of the telescope was manual and required a joy stick. Secrets about how to find stars at high airmass were passed down from operator to operator. All of this followed the nightly ritual of watching the sunset with the telescope operators and looking for the green flash. 

Standing inside the dome and watching the sky peak in as the dome opens as sunset remains to me, a magical sight. When I see this happening, I am sharing the experience through time, knowing that previous astronomers have been equally amazed as I am. When the nostalgia subsides, I head to the control room to settle in for the night. With the starlist assembled, my night's task is set forth and we begin collecting spectra of nearby stars, one at a time, in the search for planets beyond the solar system.
