Opening Discussion and Motivation of 'Why are we here today'

Welcome to the first week of the Introduction to Astronomy Research. My name is Howard Isaacson, and I am meeting many of you in person for the first time. In a moment we will have introductions from both the mentors and the students, but first I would like to say a few things about what to expect over the next 10 weeks. 

The purpose of this program is to help you become familiar to the many of the platforms that research astronomers use on a daily basis. As the technology industry has grown in the last 10-20 years, the tools that professional computer programmers and tech businesses use have crossed over the academia in nearly every scientific field and astronomy is no exception. 

Historically speaking, from the use of the use of the first telescopes to conduct astronomical observations, to the use of photographic plates to record star fields and even into the 1990s, the professional astronomer was one who stayed late a few nights a year, then spent their days working with a pencil and paper examining the results and writing papers. In today’s world of professional astronomy, it’s rare to spend more than few hours before a colleague is emailing about the latest data, results or research paper. We live in a collaborative world with many people working collectively on the same project. As astronomers, we require the modern tools of communication and collaboration. The practices of computer programming are moving from closed source, propriotary software to open source communal programming for all to utilize and contribute. 

But not everything has changed. Astronomers still require a keen ability to read and understand published papers. The physics and mathematical formulas that you will learn in your regular coursework is still crucial and statistics, while changing in name and practice are still an integral part of scientific research.

Over the course of the next 10 weeks, we will be providing the directions that you should all follow in order to be a successful research astronomer. With the skills that you acquire this summer, you will all be better prepared to begin a research position in the Fall school semester. We will be discussing computer programming, how to read a scientific journal article, and eventually, how to formulate research questions.

While the majority of this course is meant to be a self-lead tutorial, we strongly encourage the use of email to communicate your progress, raise questions, and generally communicate with the group. By communicating via these weekly meetings, and email, you will begin to grow your group of astronomy research peers. In the new world of collaborative astronomy, we hope that this group is the first of many collaborations.
